Welcome to Kyle Gilroy's Homepage!


This page is used to showcase my various skills in the field of computer science.

Professional Self-Assessment and Narratives

1.	Discuss how completing your coursework throughout the program and developing the ePortfolio has helped showcased your strengths and shape your professional goals and values and prepared you to either enter or become more employable in the computer science field. 

When working on any project you should always make it people friendly no matter what it is you do. While working on my artifacts I made sure to leave comments on any changes I made and left my initials as well so anyone looking at it in the future would know what was done. Programming isn’t a solo job; you should always expect others to at one point view your code for whatever reason. Most of my commented code involved sections of the programs that either needed more explanation for stakeholders to understand the processes, or for programmers to understand where they are at. The programs run as desired, but it is always good practice to give some English to the code. When I think of data structures, I think about how to make the data and algorithms flow as smoothly as possible. Throughout my time here at Southern New Hampshire University I always made it a point to create a program that’s easy to read and follow the same pattern. By keeping to the same data structure and algorithms I can easily notice any bugs or defects caused by coding issues, as I did in my data structures artifact. Working with software and databases has been a rewarding experience, and my ePortfolio showcases my method of going about it. I always aim for code that is easy to understand yet reliable. My dream career path is in cyber security, and my ePortfolio just goes to show how seriously I take security as I have run each program through various testing methods to check for errors, bugs, or defects. I see myself as a detective solving crimes while working with code, while I should be aware of the good, I should also be aware of the bad. 

2.	Summarize/introduce how your artifacts fit together and inform the portfolio as a whole; this will help demonstrate the full range of your computer science talents and abilities?

Software Design Artifact started off my works by letting me demonstrate how I like a program to look. Along with adding commented code to clearly explain what each section did I also made the format easier for future programmers to look at, or even testers who need to test the program. Software does not need to be complicated, and by keeping it simple you can easily avoid making serious mistakes down the line. In the end I can say I improved the program to do what is desired, along with making the code more reliable and secure by keeping the format in line and checking for any security issues.  
Algorithms and Data Structures Artifact was a final project from my secure coding class and was riddled with various security issues and formatting issues. My goal for this particular artifact was to improve efficiency. Through meticulous effort of finding security issues by visual inspection, compiler inspection, and static analysis tool I have clearly shown with associated comments and new code that efficiency has been improved. This artifact was more than just a project to get done for my final class, it was a way for me to review my work and understand secure coding better. While working on this artifact I noticed new errors I had missed in my previous class and through research I found ways to work around them or fix them. Research is an important skill of any programmer, no one knows everything, and you need to be able to go out there and find what you need. 
Databases Artifact was an interesting artifact for me to do, as it felt like a culmination of the previous two artifacts. While creating an interface with JavaScript for the artifact I needed to go out and research the proper way to code with JavaScript and apply what I knew about software design, algorithms and data structures. I had previously created an interface coded with Python to work with, yet I still needed to work through the new interface step by step. From researching how to code with JavaScript to creating the structure of the interface and following a proper format I managed to create a finished artifact for my assignment.
